---
title: 逼话：The Long, Long Slope
date: 2011-03-15 21:38:24
tags: 
- 逼话
password: AK12
---

**日期：2011 年 3 月 15 日**

2011-03-15

When I logged in, I saw Nagisa... And hear a piece of music called 'lost thing is ... bygone days.'

I know this article contains quite many grammar mistakes and even spelling mistakes. Well, I am a Chinese; at least, I was born in this land. But you could read this essay smoothly, because we all have a foundation to read Chinglish. Somehow, yet I would fuss up when I see Chinese character... Still, I like to see something different from my own culture.


Everything goes wrong these days...I know it is not a time to complain it to the God or else. I am not a man of determination, and I know I am also not a man of talent mental power.

If I could get another chance to live my life once again, I shall never choose to go to USTC, the University of Science and Technology of China, a place lacking liberal arts department and the spirits of human being. But everyone knows it, since childhood, that time never rewinds .

How am I supposed to know what is right? Just and only 'go and try to fight'? Damn, the cell phone vibrated, just ignore it.

I may choose a university consisting of both science department and arts department, and obviously I would like to study an art subject this time. What's the fuck of science, especially the science studying in China?

I am not a child that could be curious to all the phenomenon of nature. Not any more... Since I was in age of child, I did know quite a lot about that. I read lots of books about that... But there is not an even single one about culture or art. So I regret.

I have known the structure of a human body before I graduated from primary school. I have known what our universe was, and the history and the future it might be. I have known that H(NO3) and HCl mixed to be Aqua regia. And I used 'the white hole' to make a phrase in an exam, which only got a criticism with zero score of that problem. After that, the teacher said that 'it's called "black hole" but not the white hole...'

A child would be curious about the nature, part because of the natural instincts, and part because of the social situation. As the saying goes, 'Science and technology are the primary productive forces'. But were that productive forces that important in our life? In every phase, man seemed to live happy from beginning to the end. We are still happy even we did not have something called Internet or electricity in the past time. Our spiritual life is strong all the time.

I admire the figures of Greek and other countries. They think about life, think about universe, think about nature, and think about all the things they could think. They solve problems related to math, physics, medical science, psychology, society... and philosophy, so they are strong-minded. But today we usually study only science and ignored all the arts.

Our text relates religion with ghost, relates history with sham, and relates music and arts with something supreme and hard to understand. So, we must study math, math, math... (Someone come back to the dorm, yuck...)

Is that something text said true? Might not... We all read from text that religion persecute many people or even 'scientists' to death. But so what? I think it was a very simple little thing. Especially when you are in China, Every time the dynasty changed, the later emperor should send many people who did not support the state to another world. And during the Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution (wen hua da ge min~), there are at least two million innocent citizen who died.

Something important is that a revolution occurred in England called 'Bourgeois revolution'(zi chan jie ji ge min), is called 'Puritan Movement'(Puritan is a religion) overseas. And the first people arrived at the land of United States is also a group of Puritan. And many scientists' research is supported by church financially. 

After all, both the science study and religion belief is focused on the universe and we human beings. Still now, scientists cannot declare a precise and cogent answer to those two problems. And more often, the newer quantum physics confuses physicians a lot. They even feel it has a lot to do with religion. There is amount of things cannot be explained. In these fields, nature science seems not to be better than culture science.

I think I should go back to things related with topic...

Well. If I could have once more chance, I may study art science in high school. Still now, I think high school time is the wonderful time in my life. The knowledge is not that difficult and quite common you don't need to do housework in China. I used to play AVG before sleeping... I may sit up till two or three o'clock even I must get up at six thirty a.m. One thing is that we can sleep in the boring and meaningless class.  A perfect time was it. Although I studied nature science, our classmates is full of energy. The best 10 minutes break during every two class. We did all we can imagine... But time never rewinds, I have said it twice...

I am poor in math, compare to the other talented boys and girls. That is the problem. I myself find it, not anyone else. At senior high, I did poor in geometry. I cannot find angles like 'corresponding angles' and 'interior angles on the same side' etc...  What a simple thing, you cannot imagine that... After that very examination, I was blamed for it. They all think I am clever and should do better in math...I managed to do it, but I shall never forget things may only know by me that I have difficulty in math. Actually, math is abstract and difficult, and our text may be the most difficult one around the world. So getting 70 scores of 100 'must prove that I did quite well in mathematics'.

I enter a principal high school. And so did a principal class. Math at high school... You can guess what I will say. I try hardest in math and physics, but always come with poor grades in those two subjects and along with blames. I sometimes also ask myself whether I am fit for that science subject... To be honest, I am actually not very diligent and all the things I want inside are to live a happy life, not in the end every period of it. Little ambition breaks...

And now, I lose interest in every subjects I studying. I used to love computer science. I did quite well in C programming language last semester. I... Still love computer... But one word 'science' please disappeared at once...

Advanced math is a gap I cannot step over. No matter how many hours I slept, I nod in the class. I quickly go into a situation of 'half sleeping, half awake' once doing math homework or reading math book. I cannot control myself. Since I am not interesting in it, why must I study it? Do I have to solve function when purchasing? Do I have to list matrix when working?

As math cannot be grasped well, so will viscosity. I do not complain it anymore. I just have a feeling that I cannot do anything in the forthcoming, I cannot go unaware, and I cannot achieve my real or inner goals. I may be a failure...

Things are not 'No growing, no gaining'. I cannot see anything clearly which I can gain studying this damn subject, how am I willing to spend my spirits and time? Maybe I am a failure...

Friends consider I am the one laughing all the time long ago. But in real world I may consider I myself crying all the time even long ago. Man laughing most pitfalls mold crying hardest. God arranged it well and equally.

I just want to explore this world via my own way. I just want to live a peaceful life. Everyone has his dreams. Not drowning in the mathematics and the so-called university, so-called science.
